So let's jump down here.
There's three types that you gotta think
about at least overall which is a value.
So what is a value?
This is the value, right?
That is the vector,
that is the thing itself.
Second, there are references,
I can create a reference to this value,
which means that you can
read data from that value.
And third, I can create a mutable
reference to that value,
meaning that it is a reference to
a thing in which I can also mutate.
And so unlike JavaScript, you cannot
mutate a vector unless if you say,
hey, this thing is mutable.
And I think that's a very important
difference between the two because it
allows a much more kinda strict paradigm.
You won't get things off getting
mutated somewhere else and
then being surprised about it.
It also allows for some other cool things.
So obviously I already went over this,
you can only have one value.
Now there is a small exception to
the rule, which just like in C++ when we
assigned, it copied, you can also
implement the copy trait on your type.
So if you create a struct,
you implement the copy trait.
When you assign, you'll actually get
it to implicitly copy which could or
which could be great or bad.
And so numbers as you can imagine,
they just copy, that makes perfect sense,
it makes no sense if you could only
have a number that you cannot copy.
So fairly easy, doesn't matter,
we can do that.
Two, references, you can have as
many references as you would like.
Everything can be a reference.
So as you can see here, x equals five,
y is a reference to it.
There we go.
So let's just do that really quickly so
we can kinda see how that looks cuz I
feel like it's always better to program.
So x equals that,
y equals a reference to x.
And then we can go x plus y.
Now if we look at x, it is a type
of an integer that is 32 bits long.
For those that don't know what 32 is,
that's how many bits are in a number,
approximately 4 billion is the highest
number you can represent with 32 bits.
And y is a reference to a 32.
Which also means that I cannot do things
like this, I cannot go y equals six.
And why not?
Well, you can't do that.
You cannot mutate this thing cuz it
is not a mutable reference, right?
You cannot change it.
But I can certainly use its value.
So x plus y is the same
thing as doing x times two,
whatever you wanna call it because
this is okay, you can have that out.
But what you cannot do is have
a reference to something and
a mutable reference to something
at the exact same time.
This is a very important part about rust.
And this is actually where it guarantees
a lot of its safety is because you cannot
have things that can read at the same time
where things can write to cuz that is
gonna cause some fundamental problems.
We've all seen this, and
JavaScript doesn't quite have this because
JavaScript doesn't quite have threads.
But you've seen problems where
you're expecting one vote,
we call them data races.
I think still in JavaScript,
it's kinda funny, but
you have race conditions
still in JavaScript.
And that is a lot of
it comes down to this.
You're waiting for something to change.
And you shouldn't be passing
all these things and
things just become convoluted and
very, very hard.
Cuz everyone's kinda pointing at each
other, hoping someone's gonna do it
whereas with rust,
you just can't really do that as easily.
I'm sure there's a way with unsafe mode
where you could cause some similar
problems but we're just not gonna touch
unsafe mode and unsafe mode is still
fairly safe in comparison, but
with this, you cannot do that.
So if I just had this,
this is totally fine.
Now I can go z equals seven, right?
I can do some fun things here, right?
Or I gotta dereference this.
There we go.
And so now I can do this which,
what do you think the answer is gonna be?
Cannot do these fun things, right?
What are we gonna get here?
My goodness, can I borrow x's mutable?
Can't forget all these things,
can't obviously borrow a mutable version
of x if x is not mutable itself, right?
So you're gonna get a lot of
complaints from the compiler.
It's gonna tell you a lot of things,
that small simple changes just did just
inundated you with like,
here's this is wrong.
Hey, that's wrong.
Hey, this is wrong.
Look that's wrong.
And, of course, when you print it out,
you can see that it's seven.
It's just something to always remember.
So in the C++ land, which is not important
JavaScript, you can do things like this.
This gives you obviously, scope control.
Because what it's saying here
is that z is going to live, but
it lives up until this point.
Now this is not technically true.
There's actually a better explanation
of how things live in rust in the book
Rust for Rustaceans.
But for our sake,
just think of it at the end of every
scope is how long something lives for.
So how rust guarantees safety is that
rust can go as an agony like this, right?
Why does this work?
How come this works when I have two
things that I'm manipulating, right?
I have a mutable and immutable here.
Well, x is not manipulated
inside of here and
it only has a single reference x or
z to x that's mutable.
And then we do something with it and
then we drop z.
Z no longer lives, therefore x can
be remutable again and so now, boom,
we're doing it right here.
And so that's kind of how rust works is
that it kinda lives on these lifetime
edges and you can just use swirlies as
your general kinda cut off point for
where do you think these things happen.
Like I said, there is actually
a much more detailed version of it.
It's just irrelevant for our case and
you only run into it very rarely.
But there you go.
So now we have that beautiful
little thing right there.
Just obviously can't do that.
Not gonna work.
All right, so do we have any questions?
It's kinda stopped here.
We can kinda go over some
more examples if you need to,
cuz It's important just to have a basic
understanding that you have a value.
The value only exists in one spot.
When you assign it to somewhere else,
it literally moves that
value into the new one.
You cannot reference it to the old one.
So just like I did before with
the vectors, well, where was it?
Where were you?
Right, right here.
You cannot reference a anymore.
A has been moved,
I cannot push right here, right?
If I try to push, what is it gonna do?
A's already been moved, right?
And so in rust world,
everything gets moved as you assign it so
if I hand a value to a function,
do I have the value anymore?
No, the function has the value.
If the function doesn't return me
the value, then that value is gone.
So if it's a vector filled with a bunch
of items, and you don't get it back,
it's gone forever.
So you can hand in references to it.
So that way,
you still retain the value but
they have a reference to it to read it.
If they need to mutate it,
you can hand it a mutable reference.
They can mutate it, then the lifetime
of that mutable reference is done, and
then you can do and go on your merry way
and do the things you need to do with it.
So long as you keep those
things in your head,
I really don't think rust is that hard.
That's like the hardest part and then you
go into async world and then you cry and
async and everything's terrible.
So we won't go there like I said but
I just wanna say that one more
time any questions feel free.
>> So just to clarify,
if you declare a variable as mutable and
then you borrow it using the ampersand,
it becomes immutable at that point and
then you can't reference
it again as mutable.
>> So let's do that again.
Okay, so you're saying, hey,
I have a, it's mutable, right?
I'm gonna give it a type just so
it quits complaining.
This will be a vec of i32, right?
So that's what it's
complaining about saying, hey,
I don't know what I am because
I haven't given it a type yet.
And so if I hand it to B, and
this is fine, this is perfectly fine,
these are just warning saying,
hey, it's an unused variable.
It put a underscore so
don't worry about that.
So yes, I can have a reference out to
this thing that is mutable, that is fine.
But what I cannot do is
I cannot have a mutable
reference along with a reference out.
Once you start going into this land,
you start getting into the very dangerous
land of, hey,
you're not allowed to do these things.
It's gonna start causing a bunch of
problems because if I start passing things
around, you start getting into the borrow
checker, losing its mind saying, hey,
stop doing that,
you're not allowed to do that.
But that's pretty much it.
So long as you keep things,
just think of it as steps and
be a little bit more precise as
you walk through when you want
things to mutate when you
don't want things to mutate.
Most people always talk about you should
never have mute unless if you really need
it as a keyword.
It's a rare word you need.
All right, we got a question.
>> What if you actually have two owners,
I'm thinking about double linked lists,
etc.?
>> So you cannot simply.
One does not simply create a double
linked list in Russ that is
because there's this whole thing,
what is it called?
It's called too many lists.
I believe it's what it's called
learning rust with too many link
lists, there we go.
This is actually gonna go over a lot,
this is like what I consider one of
the best places to learn rust from.
The sad part about this really awesome
content here is that it's geared towards
very new people to rust, which
convoluted its explanations with like,
hey, this is what a reference is.
When I was hoping it'd be like the more
kinda like you already know what
references are,
references just point to something, right?
But this is a very, very good thing
to kind of understand linkless.
So only one thing can ever own a value.
And so often what people do is they
create reference counters are an RCA
reference count.
That's a way you can pass out
multiple reference to this.
You can guard it with
what is called a mutex.
So that way multiple people can edit it.
There's a bunch of there's
interior mutability.
There's all these confusing
things eventually that go on for
allowing better maintaining this but it
just takes a bit more time to do things.
Whereas with, Go or TypeScript,
you just don't ever think about it.
Just everybody has access to
everything and everyone can change it.
And that's just the way it is.
And so rust is just gonna make
you go a little bit slower and
think about a few things.
So, nice try though on
the doubly linked lists.
Okay, you're not gonna
catch me on that one.
Well, let me just program one up
really quickly for you in that way.
>> Here.
>> I guess I'm not understanding what's
the difference between a reference and
a mutable reference.
>> A mmutable reference allows you
to mutate the underlying item.
Whereas a reference only
allows you to read the data.
So they make a distinction there.
You can only have one mutable reference
out, cuz two things cannot both read and
write data at the same time.
And they just put it some of
these concrete rules in so
that way it's easier for you.
It's really easier for
the compiler to tell you you're wrong.
>> Kinda weird question here, so like,
how it's happening is kinda seems
it's well if you have a value for a,
it's pointing to memory in the soil into
therapy to actually move the value there
but does a still point to that location
and memory and there's nothing there?
>> So I mean, I can't speak to the exact
specifics of what a is actually
pointing to at that point.
But the compiler will simply
not let you run that program.
So it's because it's a valueless item and
they can pre-compute that it's
a valueless item there for this program
is doing something wrong, right?
It's effectively like a use after free
air in C++ and so it's just like this
thing is a dangling pointer now, you may
never ever use this this construct again.
But one cool thing about rust,
just to throw this out here so
if B equals A there, there is this
thing called shadowing which I really,
really like,
is you can read declare variables, right?
So a is a vector of i32, l can now
make a into a string but I have to use
the keyword let, which is really
convenient especially in like loops or
things where you want to go, I need to
change the type from one to another.
This is kind of more annoying and
something like go pick is
go does not allow this.
And so you have to come up like,
okay, I have a config,
I have a thing that has a config and
you start getting this config or whatever,
the word problem becomes new, like, I just
need to change from one type to another,
and then it just is very painful.
Whereas if I try to reassign a,
I'm not gonna let me obviously the whole,
you can't assign
an immutable variable twice.
It's just not allowed, right?
It's gonna try to catch everything
you're doing all the time.
It's very good at doing it too.
It's gonna make you feel bad and
frustrated.
And so don't feel upset if you're
frustrated, just long as you can keep
that one thing in mind,
you have a value it points to something.
Whenever you pass the value,
it has gone from you.
You no longer have it.
There's only one owner,
there's only one owner of the ring, right?
And whoever has it is, the Lord, say,
of the ring, perhaps all the rings
if there's references out we
can keep going with this.
I don't think we should though.
You'd be surprised to know that
I made that up on the spot.
All right, let's keep on going.